docs/ADD-APPLICATION-COMMANDS.md, before:

# add-application.sh Commands Reference

Reference for recreating this catalog from scratch using `./catalog-workflow.sh add-app`. Data sourced from existing applications.

## Modes: Helm vs Kustomize

- **Helm (OCI)** — `--ocirepo` — Use when the chart is already published to an OCI registry.
- **Helm (repo)** — `--helmrepo` + `--ocipush` — Use when the chart is only on a Helm repo: the script pulls, pushes to OCI, then adds the app.
- **Kustomize** — `--kustomize` + `--gitrepo` + `--path` — Use for Kubeflow-style Kustomize-based deployments (GitRepository + Flux Kustomization).

## Usage

```bash
# Direct OCI (chart already in OCI)
./catalog-workflow.sh add-app --appname <name> --version <version> --ocirepo oci://<registry>/path/chart [--force]

# Helm repo → OCI (script pulls and pushes)
./catalog-workflow.sh add-app --appname <name> --version <version> --helmrepo <repo>/<chart> --ocipush oci://<registry>/path [--helmrepo-url <url>] [--force]

# Kustomize (Kubeflow-style: GitRepository + Flux Kustomization)
./catalog-workflow.sh add-app --appname <name> --version <version> --kustomize --gitrepo <url> --path <path> [--ref <branch|tag>] [--force]

# Via workflow script
./catalog-workflow.sh add-app --appname <name> --version <version> --ocirepo oci://...
./catalog-workflow.sh add-app --appname katib --version 0.17.0 --kustomize --gitrepo https://github.com/kubeflow/manifests --path ./apps/katib/overlays/default --ref release-v1.10
```

Use `--force` to overwrite existing application directories without confirmation.

**Workflow script:** `./catalog-workflow.sh` orchestrates add-app, validate, add-tests, build-push. Use `./catalog-workflow.sh --help` for all options.

---

## Applications Using add-application.sh (OCI Helm Charts)

### Infrastructure

| App | Version | Command |
|-----|---------|---------|
| cert-manager | 1.19.2 | `./catalog-workflow.sh add-app --appname cert-manager --version 1.19.2 --ocirepo oci://quay.io/jetstack/charts/cert-manager` |
| traefik | 38.0.2 | `./catalog-workflow.sh add-app --appname traefik --version 38.0.2 --ocirepo oci://ghcr.io/traefik/helm/traefik` |

### Observability

| App | Version | Command |
|-----|---------|---------|
| kube-prometheus-stack | 80.13.3 | `./catalog-workflow.sh add-app --appname kube-prometheus-stack --version 80.13.3 --ocirepo oci://ghcr.io/prometheus-community/charts/kube-prometheus-stack` |
| loki | 6.46.0 | `./catalog-workflow.sh add-app --appname loki --version 6.46.0 --ocirepo oci://ghcr.io/grafana/helm-charts/loki` |
| tempo | 1.21.1 | `./catalog-workflow.sh add-app --appname tempo --version 1.21.1 --ocirepo oci://ghcr.io/grafana/helm-charts/tempo` |
| opentelemetry-collector | 0.140.1 | `./catalog-workflow.sh add-app --appname opentelemetry-collector --version 0.140.1 --ocirepo oci://ghcr.io/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-helm-charts/opentelemetry-collector` |
| opentelemetry-operator | 0.140.0 | `./catalog-workflow.sh add-app --appname opentelemetry-operator --version 0.140.0 --ocirepo oci://ghcr.io/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-helm-charts/opentelemetry-operator` |

### Demo / General

| App | Version | Command |
|-----|---------|---------|
| podinfo | 6.9.4 | `./catalog-workflow.sh add-app --appname podinfo --version 6.9.4 --ocirepo oci://ghcr.io/stefanprodan/charts/podinfo` |

### Security

| App | Version | Command |
|-----|---------|---------|
| oauth2-proxy | 8.0.2 | `./catalog-workflow.sh add-app --appname oauth2-proxy --version 8.0.2 --ocirepo oci://registry-1.docker.io/bitnamicharts/oauth2-proxy` |

### Multi-Cluster / Platform

| App | Version | Command |
|-----|---------|---------|
| kro | 0.7.1 | `./catalog-workflow.sh add-app --appname kro --version 0.7.1 --ocirepo oci://registry.k8s.io/kro/charts/kro` |

### AI / Infrastructure (from kgateway-dev)

| App | Version | Command |
|-----|---------|---------|
| agentgateway | 2.1.2 | `./catalog-workflow.sh add-app --appname agentgateway --version 2.1.2 --ocirepo oci://ghcr.io/kgateway-dev/charts/agentgateway` |
| | | *Note: Chart uses tag `v2.2.0-main`; update `ref.tag` in helmrelease if needed.* |

---

## Applications Using Helm Repo (--helmrepo + --ocipush)

These charts are on Helm repos. Use `--helmrepo` and `--ocipush` so the script pulls and pushes to OCI automatically.

| App | Version | Command |
|-----|---------|---------|
| kubescape-operator | 1.29.12 | `./catalog-workflow.sh add-app --appname kubescape-operator --version 1.29.12 --helmrepo kubescape/kubescape-operator --ocipush oci://ghcr.io/deepak-muley/kubescape-operator --helmrepo-url https://kubescape.github.io/helm-charts/` |
| kyverno | 3.6.1 | `./catalog-workflow.sh add-app --appname kyverno --version 3.6.1 --helmrepo kyverno/kyverno --ocipush oci://ghcr.io/deepak-muley/kyverno --helmrepo-url https://kyverno.github.io/kyverno/` |
| vault | 0.31.0 | `./catalog-workflow.sh add-app --appname vault --version 0.31.0 --helmrepo hashicorp/vault --ocipush oci://ghcr.io/deepak-muley/vault --helmrepo-url https://helm.releases.hashicorp.com` |
| karmada-operator | 1.16.0 | `./catalog-workflow.sh add-app --appname karmada-operator --version 1.16.0 --helmrepo karmada-charts/karmada-operator --ocipush oci://ghcr.io/deepak-muley/karmada-operator --helmrepo-url https://raw.githubusercontent.com/karmada-io/karmada/master/charts` |

**Note:** If the Helm repo is already added (`helm repo add` + `helm repo update`), you can omit `--helmrepo-url`.

---

## Applications Using Kustomize (--kustomize)

For Kubeflow-style Kustomize-based deployments (GitRepository + Flux Kustomization):

| App | Version | Command |
|-----|---------|---------|
| **Katib** | 0.17.0 | `./catalog-workflow.sh add-app --appname katib --version 0.17.0 --kustomize --gitrepo https://github.com/kubeflow/manifests --path ./apps/katib/overlays/default --ref release-v1.10` |
| **Kubeflow Pipelines** | 2.0.0 | `./catalog-workflow.sh add-app --appname kubeflow-pipelines --version 2.0.0 --kustomize --gitrepo https://github.com/kubeflow/manifests --path ./apps/pipeline/upstream/default --ref release-v1.10` |

See [docs/KUBEFLOW-CATALOG.md](KUBEFLOW-CATALOG.md) for full Kubeflow context.

---

## Applications Not Using add-application.sh

### Job-Based / Custom Install (manual structure)

| App | Version | Notes |
|-----|---------|-------|
| **kagent** | 0.1.0 | Job-based install via `kubectl apply` of install.yaml. Copy structure from `applications/kagent/0.1.0/`. No OCI Helm chart. |

### Custom / GitOps Manifests (manual structure)

| App | Version | Notes |
|-----|---------|-------|
| **letsencrypt-clusterissuer** | 1.0.0 | Custom Kustomization with clusterissuers.yaml, cm.yaml. Depends on cert-manager. No upstream Helm chart. |

### Private / Custom Charts (manual or custom OCI)

| App | Version | OCI Path | Notes |
|-----|---------|----------|-------|
| **dm-nkp-gitops-custom-app** | 0.1.0 | `oci://ghcr.io/deepak-muley/dm-nkp-gitops-custom-app/prod/...` | Custom app; chart built and pushed from own repo. |
| **dm-nkp-gitops-a2a-server** | 0.2.0 | `oci://ghcr.io/deepak-muley/charts/dm-nkp-gitops-a2a-server/...` | Custom A2A server; chart in private OCI. |

---

## Post-add Steps

1. **Validate**: `./validate.sh`
2. **Update metadata.yaml**: categories, description, supportLink
3. **For agentgateway**: Ensure `ref.tag` matches available chart tag (e.g. `v2.2.0-main`)

---

## Deployment Order (Full Stack)

See [ARCHITECTURE.md](ARCHITECTURE.md) for details:

1. cert-manager  
2. letsencrypt-clusterissuer (optional)  
3. traefik (optional)  
4. kube-prometheus-stack, loki, tempo  
5. opentelemetry-operator (recommended) or opentelemetry-collector  
6. dm-nkp-gitops-custom-app (or your application)

Commit message:

Update CI docs catalog workflow podinfo 6.9.3 catalog-source and check-versions

docs/ADD-APPLICATION-COMMANDS.md, after:

# add-application.sh Commands Reference

Reference for recreating this catalog from scratch using `./catalog-workflow.sh add-app`. Data sourced from existing applications.

## Modes: Helm vs Kustomize

- **Helm (OCI)** — `--ocirepo` — Use when the chart is already published to an OCI registry.
- **Helm (repo)** — `--helmrepo` + `--ocipush` — Use when the chart is only on a Helm repo: the script pulls, pushes to OCI, then adds the app.
- **Kustomize** — `--kustomize` + `--gitrepo` + `--path` — Use for Kubeflow-style Kustomize-based deployments (GitRepository + Flux Kustomization).

## Usage

```bash
# Direct OCI (chart already in OCI)
./catalog-workflow.sh add-app --appname <name> --version <version> --ocirepo oci://<registry>/path/chart [--force]

# Helm repo → OCI (script pulls and pushes)
./catalog-workflow.sh add-app --appname <name> --version <version> --helmrepo <repo>/<chart> --ocipush oci://<registry>/path [--helmrepo-url <url>] [--force]

# Kustomize (Kubeflow-style: GitRepository + Flux Kustomization)
./catalog-workflow.sh add-app --appname <name> --version <version> --kustomize --gitrepo <url> --path <path> [--ref <branch|tag>] [--force]

# Via workflow script
./catalog-workflow.sh add-app --appname <name> --version <version> --ocirepo oci://...
./catalog-workflow.sh add-app --appname katib --version 0.17.0 --kustomize --gitrepo https://github.com/kubeflow/manifests --path ./apps/katib/overlays/default --ref release-v1.10
```

Use `--force` to overwrite existing application directories without confirmation.

**Workflow script:** `./catalog-workflow.sh` orchestrates add-app, validate, add-tests, build-push. Use `./catalog-workflow.sh --help` for all options.

---

## Applications Using add-application.sh (OCI Helm Charts)

### Infrastructure

| App | Version | Command |
|-----|---------|---------|
| cert-manager | 1.19.2 | `./catalog-workflow.sh add-app --appname cert-manager --version 1.19.2 --ocirepo oci://quay.io/jetstack/charts/cert-manager` |
| traefik | 38.0.2 | `./catalog-workflow.sh add-app --appname traefik --version 38.0.2 --ocirepo oci://ghcr.io/traefik/helm/traefik` |

### Observability

| App | Version | Command |
|-----|---------|---------|
| kube-prometheus-stack | 80.13.3 | `./catalog-workflow.sh add-app --appname kube-prometheus-stack --version 80.13.3 --ocirepo oci://ghcr.io/prometheus-community/charts/kube-prometheus-stack` |
| loki | 6.46.0 | `./catalog-workflow.sh add-app --appname loki --version 6.46.0 --ocirepo oci://ghcr.io/grafana/helm-charts/loki` |
| tempo | 1.21.1 | `./catalog-workflow.sh add-app --appname tempo --version 1.21.1 --ocirepo oci://ghcr.io/grafana/helm-charts/tempo` |
| opentelemetry-collector | 0.140.1 | `./catalog-workflow.sh add-app --appname opentelemetry-collector --version 0.140.1 --ocirepo oci://ghcr.io/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-helm-charts/opentelemetry-collector` |
| opentelemetry-operator | 0.140.0 | `./catalog-workflow.sh add-app --appname opentelemetry-operator --version 0.140.0 --ocirepo oci://ghcr.io/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-helm-charts/opentelemetry-operator` |

### Demo / General

| App | Version | Command |
|-----|---------|---------|
| podinfo | 6.9.4 | `./catalog-workflow.sh add-app --appname podinfo --version 6.9.4 --ocirepo oci://ghcr.io/stefanprodan/charts/podinfo` |

### Security

| App | Version | Command |
|-----|---------|---------|
| oauth2-proxy | 8.0.2 | `./catalog-workflow.sh add-app --appname oauth2-proxy --version 8.0.2 --ocirepo oci://registry-1.docker.io/bitnamicharts/oauth2-proxy` |

### Multi-Cluster / Platform

| App | Version | Command |
|-----|---------|---------|
| kro | 0.7.1 | `./catalog-workflow.sh add-app --appname kro --version 0.7.1 --ocirepo oci://registry.k8s.io/kro/charts/kro` |

### AI / Infrastructure (from kgateway-dev)

| App | Version | Command |
|-----|---------|---------|
| agentgateway | 2.1.2 | `./catalog-workflow.sh add-app --appname agentgateway --version 2.1.2 --ocirepo oci://ghcr.io/kgateway-dev/charts/agentgateway` |
| | | *Note: Chart uses tag `v2.2.0-main`; update `ref.tag` in helmrelease if needed.* |

---

## Applications Using Helm Repo (--helmrepo + --ocipush)

These charts are on Helm repos. Use `--helmrepo` and `--ocipush` so the script pulls and pushes to OCI automatically.

| App | Version | Command |
|-----|---------|---------|
| kubescape-operator | 1.29.12 | `./catalog-workflow.sh add-app --appname kubescape-operator --version 1.29.12 --helmrepo kubescape/kubescape-operator --ocipush oci://ghcr.io/deepak-muley/kubescape-operator --helmrepo-url https://kubescape.github.io/helm-charts/` |
| kyverno | 3.6.1 | `./catalog-workflow.sh add-app --appname kyverno --version 3.6.1 --helmrepo kyverno/kyverno --ocipush oci://ghcr.io/deepak-muley/kyverno --helmrepo-url https://kyverno.github.io/kyverno/` |
| vault | 0.31.0 | `./catalog-workflow.sh add-app --appname vault --version 0.31.0 --helmrepo hashicorp/vault --ocipush oci://ghcr.io/deepak-muley/vault --helmrepo-url https://helm.releases.hashicorp.com` |
| karmada-operator | 1.16.0 | `./catalog-workflow.sh add-app --appname karmada-operator --version 1.16.0 --helmrepo karmada-charts/karmada-operator --ocipush oci://ghcr.io/deepak-muley/karmada-operator --helmrepo-url https://raw.githubusercontent.com/karmada-io/karmada/master/charts` |

**Note:** If the Helm repo is already added (`helm repo add` + `helm repo update`), you can omit `--helmrepo-url`.

For these apps, **new versions appear in the upstream Helm repo**, not in your OCI registry. To have `./catalog-workflow.sh check-versions` check the Helm repo and recommend add-app commands, add a **`.catalog-source.yaml`** in each app folder — see [docs/CATALOG-SOURCE.md](CATALOG-SOURCE.md).

---

## Applications Using Kustomize (--kustomize)

For Kubeflow-style Kustomize-based deployments (GitRepository + Flux Kustomization):

| App | Version | Command |
|-----|---------|---------|
| **Katib** | 0.17.0 | `./catalog-workflow.sh add-app --appname katib --version 0.17.0 --kustomize --gitrepo https://github.com/kubeflow/manifests --path ./apps/katib/overlays/default --ref release-v1.10` |
| **Kubeflow Pipelines** | 2.0.0 | `./catalog-workflow.sh add-app --appname kubeflow-pipelines --version 2.0.0 --kustomize --gitrepo https://github.com/kubeflow/manifests --path ./apps/pipeline/upstream/default --ref release-v1.10` |

See [docs/KUBEFLOW-CATALOG.md](KUBEFLOW-CATALOG.md) for full Kubeflow context.

---

## Applications Not Using add-application.sh

### Job-Based / Custom Install (manual structure)

| App | Version | Notes |
|-----|---------|-------|
| **kagent** | 0.1.0 | Job-based install via `kubectl apply` of install.yaml. Copy structure from `applications/kagent/0.1.0/`. No OCI Helm chart. |

### Custom / GitOps Manifests (manual structure)

| App | Version | Notes |
|-----|---------|-------|
| **letsencrypt-clusterissuer** | 1.0.0 | Custom Kustomization with clusterissuers.yaml, cm.yaml. Depends on cert-manager. No upstream Helm chart. |

### Private / Custom Charts (manual or custom OCI)

| App | Version | OCI Path | Notes |
|-----|---------|----------|-------|
| **dm-nkp-gitops-custom-app** | 0.1.0 | `oci://ghcr.io/deepak-muley/dm-nkp-gitops-custom-app/prod/...` | Custom app; chart built and pushed from own repo. |
| **dm-nkp-gitops-a2a-server** | 0.2.0 | `oci://ghcr.io/deepak-muley/charts/dm-nkp-gitops-a2a-server/...` | Custom A2A server; chart in private OCI. |

---

## Post-add Steps

1. **Validate**: `./validate.sh`
2. **Update metadata.yaml**: categories, description, supportLink
3. **For agentgateway**: Ensure `ref.tag` matches available chart tag (e.g. `v2.2.0-main`)

---

## Deployment Order (Full Stack)

See [ARCHITECTURE.md](ARCHITECTURE.md) for details:

1. cert-manager  
2. letsencrypt-clusterissuer (optional)  
3. traefik (optional)  
4. kube-prometheus-stack, loki, tempo  
5. opentelemetry-operator (recommended) or opentelemetry-collector  
6. dm-nkp-gitops-custom-app (or your application)
